00Readme_Lithium.txt

August 5, 2019

Lithium Deposits in the United States

By Karl, N.A., Mauk, J.L, Reyes, T.A., and Scott, P.C.

OBTAINING DATA
The digital GIS files constituting the database can be obtained from the U.S. Geological Survey via the Internet from 
ScienceBase at  https://doi.org/10.5066/P9ZKRWQF


GENERAL
The data are provided in three file formats: an Esri ArcGIS 10.7 geodatabase, Microsoft (MS) Excel files, and comma-separated 
values (CSV) files.  The metadata document, USGS_Lithium_US_FGDC.xml, provides a complete description of the database schema, 
rules underlying the database, units of measure, the use of negative values, data exclusions, etc. The metadata document can 
be viewed via the Internet using a web browser and by selecting 'View' under the section 'Attached Files' at the website 
https://doi.org/10.5066/P9ZKRWQF. The user is strongly advised to read the metadata prior to using the data. 


DATA FILES
The ArcGIS geodatabase contains one point and two polygon feature classes, and eight associated tables. The three feature class 
attribute tables as well as the eight associated tables are also provided as MS Excel and CSV files. A data dictionary with short 
field descriptions is included. The data files include:

Dep_Model: A table that contains mineral deposit model and geoenvironmental model classifications for a deposit. 

Descr_Sum: A table that contains relevant descriptions found in source reports. These descriptions are attributed according to the type of description, such as Geology, History, Production, Resources, etc.

GeolMinOcc: A table that contains information about the geology of mineral deposits and prospects. 

History: A table that contains information regarding the status of a mine, prospect, deposit, or mineral region through time. 

Loc_Poly: A GIS polygon feature class that represents the boundaries of deposits, mineral districts, or mining districts. 
The attribute table is provided as an Excel and CSV file.

Loc_Poly_Sw: A GIS polygon feature class that represents the extent of mining-related activity or 'surface workings' derived 
from imagery. The attribute table is provided as an Excel and CSV file.

Loc_Pt: A GIS point feature class that represents the locations of mines, mineral occurrences (deposits), and mineral regions, 
and contains basic information about the location. The attribute table is provided as an Excel and CSV file.

Production: A table that contains published production data for mines. Production is listed by commodity and is aggregated for the life of the mine. 

References: A table that contains the citation of the map or report(s) from which the point, polygon, or attribute information was obtained. 

Resources: A table that contains reported resource and reserve information for mineral deposits.

Site: A table used to identify related features, such as a deposit and the mine(s) operating on it, or a mine and its related deposits. It also indicates where information about a site occurs in other tables.

Data_Dictionary: A summary of tables and fields listed in alphabetic order. The dictionary includes a short description of each field 
and the unit of measure where appropriate. The data dictionary is intended to be used with the metadata.

Conversions: A summary of conversion factors used in calculations within the Resources and Production tables.


DISCLAIMERS
There is no guarantee concerning the accuracy of the data. Any user who modifies the data is obligated to describe the types of modifications 
they perform. Data have been checked to ensure accuracy. If any errors are detected, please notify the originating office. 

The U.S. Geological Survey strongly recommends that careful attention be paid to the metadata file associated with these data. Acknowledgment 
of the U.S. Geological Survey would be appreciated in products derived from these data. User specifically agrees not to misrepresent the data, 
nor to imply that changes made were approved or endorsed by the U.S. Geological Survey. Please refer to https://www2.usgs.gov/laws/privacy.html 
for the USGS disclaimer.

SUGGESTED CITATION
Karl, N.A., Mauk, J.L., Reyes, T.A., and Scott, P.C., 2019, Lithium Deposits in the United States: 
U.S. Geological Survey data release, https://doi.org/10.5066/P9ZKRWQF.
